Hello everybody and welcome to inheriting a game mode blueprint which we are going to inherit from a
game mode select start with hard coding.
This means that the assets are written into the code.
The file paths their exact name and if you need to update them you need to update the code itself.
Now our default pawn blueprint is an asset.
So we want to be able if we want to be able to track changes to its name is convenient to use blueprint
for this purpose.
So what we are going to end up doing is extending our C++ game mode with blueprint.
And if you cast your mind back right to the beginning the reason why we've got a C++ game mode is because
when we originally set up our project we set it up as a C++ game.
And that's always a great way of starting because it's much easier to extend the C++ game mode with
blueprint than the other way round.
And then finally we will be selecting the new default porn blueprint and setting that as our default
porn in our scene.
OK.
So first of all I'm going to get rid of my whopping great big default porn blueprint I DRAGGED INTO
MY SCENE BEFORE.
And just to check when we press play at the moment if we have a look in the outline Oh still spawning
the default porn that comes with our game mode and if we go down and open up project settings we'll
be going in here in a bit.
So you're familiar with the area we're going to be able to select a new game mode and then set our default
porn underscore BP as the default porn class okay.
So let's go back over and if we have a look outside the fault porn we hover over it we will see that
it is parent classes default porn we've seen that before.
Now when it comes to the game mode itself that will be under the building escape project of the C++
classes in your content browser and inside this photo we can see here we've got our building escaped
gamer base.
This is the C++ class.
So what we want is a blueprint that inherits from the building escape game mode base in very much the
same way.
If we go back over to our blueprints of a hover over this you can see that this is inheriting from that
the fault porn.
Okay I think you've got enough information there to go ahead with our challenge.
Okay.
And your challenge.
Well I would like is a blueprint in the game mode.
So find the C++ game mode in the content browser.
We've already popped over to it once and create a blueprint class derived or inheriting from it.
Now set this as the default game mode in settings project settings maps and modes.
We've been there a couple of times and that's the reason why so we know where we're going.
And once you've done that make sure the game still runs the same.
And then after that we'll do a few other things as well.
So go ahead post video now.
And that's Ingo Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and blueprint the game mode okay.
So we go to the building escape folder here we've got our game mode base here.
Now you may have gone around exploring perhaps go up here to blueprints.
So if you're hovering around up there you probably wouldn't have found it.
However down in the content browser if we were to right click we can create a blueprint class based
upon the building escape.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm going to prefix it sorry suffix it with BP and create that blueprint class.
That was nice and quick.
Let's go over into our project settings now.
All being well the default game mode what we should now be able to do is here we go.
We have our new building escape game mode that we can select and look at that.
All of these other ones suddenly become available for editing and we can change our default pawn here
to our default pawn blueprint How about that.
Excellent.
So let's go back into building escape for the moment.
I'm going to press play and there we go.
Looking pretty good.
Let's inject ourselves so let's go play and eject and look back at ourselves now.
Hey that looks familiar doesn't it.
That's the big default porn underscored blueprint.
That's awesome.
That's exactly what we wanted to do.
Now if we have a look at that and scroll up here we've got our grabber.
So if we go ahead now and open that up we can actually make sure everything's working and that the grabber
component is working as well we can announce to the world we'll just log to the output log quickly and
say grab a reporting for duty.
So I'm going to right click on that and open the grabber pedophile.
So here we go.
We're over in the code now.
Let me close down the sidebar there and let's go into the graphic CPB and I'll begin play.
And let's go ahead and log out to the console basically saying hello I'm going to print it in yellow
so it's going to be a warning.
And then we just need our text macro in there.
OK.
What should we say.
Let's say grabber.
Reporting for duty.
Remember our semicolon on the end and save.
OK back over in a real stop compiler code okay let's go ahead and press play.
There we go on grabber is reporting for duty brilliant.
So there we go.
I think we've accomplished what we set out to do here.
Let me just stop for the moment and go back over into V.S. code.
Okay so we've got our boilerplate here with the CPB file.
If we go back over to the grammar dot h we can see that we've got a constructor here.
It's constructing the new grabber.
And of course the use just the prefix that unreal puts there because it is a class that is the right
word from you object and then we have our begin play and tick component exactly like we had with the
open door.
And let's go back over to the implementation file and then as we come down here we've got our you grabber.
We've got to begin play and a tick component once again.
And here this primary component take if you have a have something that doesn't need to have an update
on every frame as it says here we can say that's a false if we want to and that will be a performance
improvement.
But we do need to check every frame with our grabber is something within reach.
Can we grab it.
So in Biggin play we've got our our grabber reporting for duty so we know everything's working.
And then in the next lecture which starts coding up what's the grammar is actually going to be doing.
So I'll see well over in that next lecture.